# Survey of Various Techniques to bolster Energy Efficiency in 5G IoT

Abstarct - Wireless networks are the modern infrastructure on which global connectivity is built. 5G is the next generation of wireless technology. It is a faster, more efficient and a more reliable network. 5G network is used in various fields like national defence, industrial production, developing smart cities, transportation and even in healthcare. The main feature of 5G wireless technology is that it operates in a wider bandwidth and in turn carries more data faster. Compared to previous generations, 5G increases coverage, so massive number of IoT devices can be connected and it improves the efficiency of low power communication. Boosting energy efficiency (EE) and hence lifetime of 5G Internet of Things (IoT) by employing various methods and algorithms in both wireless and wired components is discussed in this paper. Improved Cellular Partition zooming (CPZ) for wireless IoT network, refined variation of precaching mechanism for the wired portion of IoT, Ds2Ds, clustering techniques of wireless IoT and split architecture based CRAN approach for backhaul network are introduced. Further, an integrated model which caters to efficiency requirements for both wired and wireless is proposed and emerging EE is investigated. All the mechanisms discussed are found to be more energy efficient as compared to standard systems. One of the major sources of energy consumption in IoT networks is due to the transmission of information and reception of information which indeed is dependent on the routing protocol in place. So, if routing protocols which are energy efficient are employed, it can greatly help to reduce the amount of energy spend in one successful trip of information from the sender to the receiver. The routing protocols discussed are Lightweight On-demand Ad hoc Distance-vector Routing Protocol-Next Generation (LOADng) and Routing Protocol for Low Power and Lossy Networks (RPL). The simulator used while analysing the routing protocols is Cooja and the operating system is Contiki. In this survey project, we are focusing on emerging technologies in 5G IoT like Clustering, Ds2Ds, etc that improves the overall energy efficiency, use case, challenges, prospects and various security threats and the preventive measures. In order to have a deep understanding of 5G in IoT, the general architecture and it’s enabling technologies are analysed. Also, the two most widely used and followed clustering techniques in wireless sensor networks – LEECH and HEED are discussed in this paper. Clustering not only improves the lifetime of the nodes connected in a network but also leads to network scalability and robust performance. Another factor that greatly affects the energy of the nodes in IoT network is backhaul communication. To manage the increasing number of devices and data transfer requests without leading to interference at the base stations, an improved CRAN technique is used in the backhaul network architecture.

Keywords—5G IoT, CRAN, CPZ, Ds2Ds, CH, LEECH, HEED, backhaul network, BS, LOADng, LPWANs, URLLC,
